
=head1 NAME

Nes::Plugin::clean - HTML Compressor.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  {: NES 1.0 ('myscript.pl','{: * cfg_plugin_top_dir :}/Nes/filter/clean.pl') :}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Cleans up HTML code for web browsers, not humans. Significantly reduces 
the size of the HTML output.

=head1 Implement

The plugin should be loaded at the end of the Top template:

  {: NES 1.0 (...,'{: * cfg_plugin_top_dir :}/Nes/filter/clean.pl') :}
    
Or in your .nes.cfg file:

  auto_load_plugin_top_last = {: * cfg_plugin_top_dir :}/Nes/filter/clean.pl

=head1 .nes.cfg

Removes the comments if true:

    clean_remove_comments = 1
    
Removes the new lines if true:

    clean_remove_newlines = 1
    
Clean the JavaScript if true:

    clean_do_javascript   = 0
    
Clean the CSS if true:

    clean_do_stylesheet   = 0

=head1 Requires

    L<HTML::Packer>
    L<CSS::Packer>
    L<JavaScript::Packer>

=head1 AUTHOR

Skriptke: Enrique Castanon

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.03 April 2010

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Enrique F. Castanon Barbero. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms and conditions as
GNU Public License (GPL).

This means that you can, at your option, redistribute it and/or 
modify it under either the terms the GNU Public License (GPL), 
or under the Perl Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/

=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Use of this software in any way or in any form, source or binary,
is not allowed in any country which prohibits disclaimers of any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any disclaimers of a similar nature.

IN NO EVENT SHALL I BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,  OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST PROFITS) EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

=head1 SEE ALSO

Sample to use Nes; L<http://nes.sourceforge.net/>,
L<Nes>. L<Nes::Tutorial>, L<Nes::Singleton>, 

=cut

