
=head1 NAME

Nes - A powerful template system for HTML and the Web.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Nes;
    my $nes = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');

    my $nes_tags = {};
    $nes_tags->{'var_hello'} = 'Hello World!';

    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A system for separating Perl executable code and the representation of the data 
generated in HTML using Tags are replaced with variables created in Perl.

=head2 Some Nes features

=over 2

=item Simplicity

Nes has only ten Tags to include in the HTML, and a single object with a 
single method to instantiate in Perl. You can start working with Nes in 
hours, not weeks or months as in other systems.

=item Security

Transparent management of code injection and cross-site scripting. Plugins 
for creating secure forms, Forms and Captcha.

=item Objects

Object-oriented paradigm which enables you to reuse your code or use 
third-party libraries. Objects are the main feature that makes Nes and 
different from other systems. 

=item HTML oriented

Nes is oriented at HTML and not the Perl code. Nes exported very few Perl 
functions, also to simplify, Nes Objects may also contain HTML, Javascript, 
CSS, Ajax, etc.. even PHP, or trail mix.

=item Wrapper

Full support of PHP Wrapper. Nes as Wrapper can use to add functionality 
to other types as HTML, or PHP to exchange information. 

=item ModPerl

Support for mod_perl.

=item Sessions

Creating and managing user sessions.

=item Plugins

You can add functionality using plugins to Nes, you can create your own or 
use by third parties. 

=item PHP and other

Insert parts of PHP code in Nes only have to type a tag, Nes allow the 
inclusion in your script templates in other languages other than Perl 
without writing a single line of Perl code. Moreover, most of them 
can contain Tags Nes. 

=item SQL

You can insert SQL SELECT statements in your templates directly.

=item .nes.cfg configuration files

Nes provides configuration files to the style .htaccess you can also use
for your script. 

=back

=head2 Nes Perl script Sample

    use Nes;
    my = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my $nes_tags = {};
    $nes_tags->{'var_hello'} = 'Hello World!';
    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);  

=head2 Nes template Sample

    {: NES 1.0 ('hello.cgi') :}
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Nes Hello World</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <b>{: $ var_hello :}</b>
      </body>
    </html>

=head2 More samples

Sample to use Nes; L<http://nes.sourceforge.net/>

Repository L<http://github.com/Skriptke/nes>

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Nes requires configuration of you cgi-bin and .htaccess for 
directory of the Nes templates.

To active and configure Nes use utility: set_nes_site

=head2 Configured as root

Active Nes in /usr/lib/cgi-bin:

    set_nes_site --cgi_dir=/usr/lib/cgi-bin

Configure Nes for directory /var/www/myweb:

    set_nes_site --dir_cfg=/var/www/myweb

Configure Nes for all site:

    set_nes_site --dir_cfg=/var/www  

Install hello world and test examples in /var/www/test_nes:

    set_nes_site --from_exam=hello_nes --to_exam=/var/www/test_nes

More help:

    set_nes_site --help

* Change /usr/lib/cgi-bin and /var/www for you particular path

=head2 Configured locally

For configured Nes locally find you path to Nes.pm and add in 
iprefix in cgi_dir and from_exam options.

Active Nes in /usr/lib/cgi-bin:

    set_nes_site --cgi_dir=/usr/lib/cgi-bin --iprefix=/home/USER/path-to-Nes

More help:

    set_nes_site --help    

* Change /usr/lib/cgi-bin and /home/USER/path-to-Nes for you particular path

=head2 Nes templates .htaccess configuration

    AddHandler perl-nes .nhtml
    AddHandler perl-nes .nhtm
    
    Action perl-nes /cgi-bin/nes/dispatch.cgi
    
    <FilesMatch \.(nsql|nes.cfg)$>
      order deny,allow
      deny from all
    </FilesMatch>

=head2 .nes.cfg

Setting.cgi is loaded configuration Nes. It is recommended not to change their 
values and do it in the file .nes.cfg. Especially private_key value that is used
to encrypt data, if not changed the script to launch a warning each time you run Nes.

The .nes.cfg is placed in the directory where you installed your files nhtml, 
overwrites Setting.cgi and plugins cfg.

Nes look for this file in the directory and will run up nhtml directory to the 
root directory of the Web to read .nes.cfg

=head1 Singleton class

Is a singleton type object, return the new object or instance of this if is 
created previously.

    Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml'); # returns a new instance
    Nes::Singleton->new('other.nhtml');    # returns same instance
    Nes::Singleton->new();                 # returns same instance

Only require parameter if Nes is executed by CGI.

    http://example.con/perl.cgi

The parameter is ignored if executed Nes by template.

    http://example.con/template.nhtml

The CGI method only is provided for debug.

Singleton provides a single method: out. In the parameter we pass a copy of an 
associative array (%$hash) with the data we want to replace in the template.

    my $nes_tags = {};
    $nes_tags->{'hello'} = 'Hello World!';
    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);
    
    ./.
    
    my %nes_tags;
    $nes_tags{'hello'} = 'Hello World!';
    $nes->out(%nes_tag);

=head1 Syntax Nes

=head2 Blocks

Nes instructions consist of blocks enclosed in braces, the keys to open and 
close a block are respectively:

    {: and :}

=head2 Tags    

The Tags are the word or symbol that precedes the keys to open the block. 
Similar to the HTML Tags. The Tag Nes syntax is:

    {: TAG (parameters) [HTML] :}

TAG can be:

    #       Comment
    $       Variable
    *       Environment variable
    ~       Expression
    sql     SQL SELECT
    @       Data table
    @$      Field in a data table
    include include a file
    NES     Nes
    &       Plugin

=head2 Syntax

It allows abbreviated as follows:

    {: $ ( 'variable' ) :}
    {: $ ( variable ) :}
    {: $ variable :}
    {: $variable :}

The four forms have the same meaning.

Parentheses are not required provided there are no spaces between the parameters:

    {: ~ $ variable <p> HTML code </p> :}                   <- * unnecessary 
    {: ~ ($ variable1 == $ variable2) <p> HTML code </p> :} <- * required 

Use quotation marks and commas in the parameters:

    {: include ('file.nhtml','The \'Title\'','one, two and three') :} 

All Tags except NES may occupy several lines:

    {: #
        If variable returns true 
        you see "HTML code"
    :}
    {: ~ ( $ variable ) 
            <p>HTML code</p>
    :}

=head1 TAGS

=head2 # Comment

    {: # comment :}

Block is removed and not displayed in the HTML output.

=head2 $ Variable

    {: $ variable :}

The block is replaced by the value of "variable" that must have been previously 
defined in our Perl script, of not being the block is replaced by an empty string.

=head2 * Environment variable

    {: * environment_variable :}

The block is replaced by the value of environment_variable which is an 
environment variable Nes.

=head2 ~ Expression

    {: ~ (expression) HTML :}

The block is replaced by "HTML" if expression is true. Expression can be any 
valid Perl expression, including Perl regular expressions, the variable can only
be a $ variable, environment *, or a literal:

    {: ~ ( $ variable =~ /hello/ ) <p>variable greets us</p> :}
    {: ~ ( * variable ) <p>variable is defined</p> :}
    {: ~ ( ! * variable ) <p>variable is not defined</p> :}

The expressions that result in the assignment of a variable, return true or 
false but the assignment has no effect:

    {: ~ ( $ variable = 1 ) <p>value does not change</p> :}

=head2 @  Data table

    {: @ (table) HTML :}

The block is replaced and is repeated by "HTML" as many times as records have 
Table. We refer to each field in each record with:    

    {: @$ table.field :}

Table must be defined in our Perl script as an array of hashes reference.

Sample:

    <table border="1">
    {: @ user
      <tr>
        <td> {: @$ user.name  :} </td>
        <td> {: @$ user.email :} </td>
      </tr>
    :}
    </table>    

=head2 @$ Field

    {: @$ table.field :}

Where "field" is the name of the field in the table. {: @$ table.field :} is a 
property of {: @ (table) HTML :} or {: sql (SQL SELECT) HTML :}

=head2 sql SQL SELECT

    {: sql (SQL SELECT) HTML :}

The block is replaced and is repeated by "HTML" for each record returned by the
query. The operation is similar to Tag @. The SQL statement must begin with SELECT.

It reads the configuration (.nes.cfg) the following variables to access the database:

    DB_base    = base_name
    DB_user    = user
    DB_pass    = password
    DB_driver  = mysql      
    DB_host    = localhost 
    DB_port    = 3306      

Sample:

    <table border="1">
    {: sql (
              'SELECT * FROM `table` 
                        WHERE 1 
                        LIMIT 5;'
           )
      <tr>
        <td> {: @$ table.name  :} </td>
        <td> {: @$ table.email :} </td>
      </tr>
    :}
    </table>

=head2 include Include a file

    {: include ('file') :}

The block is replaced by the file "file", file can be a nhtml, nsql, html, php, 
sh, text, perl, etc..

=head2 NES Nes

    {: NES ver ('file') :}

It is similar to a line of files unix shell (#!/usr/bin/...) indicating that 
script must be run.

In the absence of this line is treated as HTML file (type text/html) without 
replacing any of Tags. If you do not need any Perl script but you want the file 
to be treated as replacement Tag Nes:

    {: NES 1.0 ('') :}

Or explicitly stating 'none' to avoid any suggestion that this is an error or oversight:

    {: NES 1.0 ('none') :}

For clarity we recommend this:

    {: NES 1.0 none :}

=head2 & Plugin

    {: & tag (param...) :}

Reserved for use by plugins.

=head1 Nes Object

Nes Objects are bits of code, NES, HTML, JavaScript, Perl... or a mixture. Any script can become an object Nes, so it is not necessary to rewrite the code. 

We call an object with include: 

    {: include ( '{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/object.nhtml', 
                  [ parameter list ]
               ) 
    :}

The objects may reside in any directory. A simple example is the object 
location.nhtml that redirects to another page: 

    {: include ( '{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/location.nhtml', 
                 'http://example.com/page.nhtml',
                 '301 Moved Permanently'
               ) 
    :}

Nes Objects offers many opportunities for code reuse. Nes The idea is to have a 
huge library of objects, so you only have to write code for individual cases, 
disposing of objects commonly used for the login, sessions, etc.. work to 
create a Web with Nes will virtually mount templates and Web design.

=head2 Create Object

With Nes can not create objects, you can invoke/include objects in your 
templates, but the object must be created in Perl, HTML, JavaScript, etc.. Or a 
mixture of all with a template Nes or not.

As an example we have encapsulated part of LWP in an Nes Object:

    {: include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.nhtml',
               URL,
               extrac,  {: # default: content      |
                                      status       |
                                      Content-Type |
                                      title        |
                                      head         |
                                      body         |
                                      star:-:end   | 
                                      :-:star:-:end:-:
                         :}
               method,   {: # default: GET | POST :}
               query,    {: # query: 'name=Jose&email=jose@sample.com' :}
               charset,  {: # default: no change | ISO | UTF-8 :}
               useragent {: # default: Nes/0.8  :}
               email     {: # user agent email. default: $ENV{'SERVER_ADMIN'} :}
             ) 
    :}
    
    extrac:
    <tag>:-:</tag>       Return tag content without tags: '<tag></tag>'
    :-:<tag>:-:</tag>:-: Return tag content and include tags: '<tag></tag>'
    
    Defined:
    {: $ status :}        # Status response
    {: $ request :}       # request send
    {: $ Content-Type :}  # Content type
    {: $ content :}       # All HTML content
    {: $ title :}         # Title Tag content
    {: $ head :}          # Head Tag content
    {: $ body :}          # Body Tag content
    {: $ extrac :}        # extrac return value

To test our object we have created a page test_page.html of which we can 
extract the "Title" as follows:

    {:  include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.nhtml',
                 'http://nes.sourceforge.net/miniblog/es/test_page.html',
                 title
                ) 
    :}

Out:

    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

We created our object so we can directly call the Perl script without the 
template nhtml:

    {:  include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.pl',
                 'http://nes.sourceforge.net/miniblog/es/test_page.html',
                 title
                ) 
    :}

Out:

    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

We may also create a new template for this Perl script. lwp.pl defines the 
following Nes Tags:

    {: $ status :}        # Status response
    {: $ request :}       # request send
    {: $ Content-Type :}  # Content type
    {: $ content :}       # All HTML content
    {: $ title :}         # Title Tag content
    {: $ head :}          # Head Tag content
    {: $ body :}          # Body Tag content
    {: $ extrac :}        # extrac return value

Then to create a small one-page report:

    {: NES 1.0 ('./lwp.pl') :}
    Status:<br>
    {: $ status :}<br>
    Title:<br>
    {: $ title :}<br>
    Content type:<br>
    {: $ Content-Type :}<br>
    Head:<br>
    {: $ head :}<br>
    Extrac:<br>
    {: $ extrac,yes_html :}

Name as lwp_custom.nhtml, store it in the obj directory, and finally we can 
invoke like this:

    {: include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp_custom.nhtml',
                'http://nes.sourceforge.net/es/test_page.html'
                'title'
               ) 
    :} 

Out:

    Status:
    200 OK 
    Title:
    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;
    Content type:
    text/html
    Head:
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1" /> 
    <title>Test Page - Sample to use Nes;</title>
    Extrac:
    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

=head1 BUGS



=head1 TODO



=head1 AUTHOR

Enrique F. Casta침칩n <skriptke@yahoo.es>    

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.0 Febrero 2010

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Enrique F. Casta침칩n. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms and conditions as
GNU Public License (GPL).

This means that you can, at your option, redistribute it and/or modify it under
either the terms the GNU Public License (GPL), or under the Perl Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/

=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Use of this software in any way or in any form, source or binary,
is not allowed in any country which prohibits disclaimers of any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any disclaimers of a similar nature.

IN NO EVENT SHALL I BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,  OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST PROFITS) EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Template::Toolkit>, L<HTML::Template>, L<HTML::Mason>


=cut

